Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to implement the size and shape manipulation.
All right, so before implementing these functionalities, what do we have to do is we have to select
those specific inputs.
So what are we going to do is I'm going to create another variable and I'm going to call it size or
I'm just going to say block, block size just to differentiate between the name of the variable and
the ID name for that specific input.
Is it an input?
So this is the label for size?
Yes, it it is an input of type range.
All right.
So let's go ahead and a selected query selector and we are going to put in an idea of size.
And the next thing that I want to select is going to be our shaped select I.D. So let's say shape.
Shape, select tour, document that query selector, and we are going to add an ID and we are going
to say Shaped Select and in case you're wondering about this I.D., it comes from right over here.
This is our select list that we have in here.
So we have selected the select list and we are going to tap into these options.
Right.
Using their values, so the first one has a value of one, the second one has a value to, that's how
this logic is implemented.
All right.
So I'm going to come down here and I'm going to add another comment and I'm going to say size changer.
Size change.
Right.
And we are going to grab our block size variable that we have created and we are going to add an event
listener.
Now let's think about what the event is going to be.
So if I come here and what I'm going to do is now this event, because we are changing the value of
this range slider, this event is going to be the same thing as these position positioning that we did
for our position Y and Position X. Basically, we are listening for a change event, not.
And whenever that event is fired, we are going to run a function.
The function is going to grab a reblock element, not size block element, and it is going to tap into
the world of styling and we are going to grab the transform, if I can spell it correctly, transform.
And now, because we are sizing this and we want to do that through transformations now, whenever we
want to make an element bigger or make it smaller, the property or the function, the ceases function
that we want to use is going to be the scale.
So I'm just going to try to scale in here.
And we are going to and we are going to concatenate to spaces, so I'm just going to add a plus sign,
but before that is space and I'm going to add another plus sign and after that is space in here, we
are going to write the value that we the size that we want this block to get bigger by.
So we want to say that the size should be black dot, not block size.
Now, where does this block size come from?
This and this and should be good.
All right, so, yeah, another quotation is another quote is missing, let's say that it should yeah,
it has fixed it.
So what is this block size?
This block size is the input range that we have in here.
So where is it?
Yeah, this is this is the block size, right?
It is going to start from zero and it is going to go all the way to to the step is going to be zero
point one.
Right.
But we are we are not actually interested in this.
We are actually interested in the value for that.
The same way that the same thing that we have done for the position X and Y we are going to do for our
size.
So we are going to say dot value, dot value.
We are going to grab the value property of the block size.
Let's save it some here and now.
If I go down, the block is going to reduce.
If I go up, the block is going to get bigger.
So let's put it all almost in the center, I think.
Come on, buddy.
Come here.
Yeah.
So if I go to two, it is going to get bigger.
If I go to like here it is going to get very, very small there.
There it is.
A block is getting bigger and smaller.
So this part is done, the next part that I want to create in this lecture, as well as going to be
the shape changer, right.
So for the shift change in what we are going to do is we are going to grab the OK button as well, because
whenever we select any shape and we click on the OK that the block is going to change shape.
So let's go ahead and let's select that as well.
We are going to call it OK, Beaton document dot query selector.
What is the ID for this button.
I think it's OK button.
So this is size.
Yes this is OK dash BTR.
So let's put in the numbers sine and OK button.
Now this event is going to be applied on the OK button because whenever we select an item from the list
and when we click OK, then the block is going to change shape.
So we are going to say OK, button dot at the center.
Right.
And the event for this one is going to be a simple click, and when the user clicks, we are going to
run a function.
So what is this function going to do?
All right, now this function is going to grab the value, OK, whereas the value of this select list,
whichever value that is, and according to that change a shape.
But in the case says we don't have any shape, for example, in here.
What I mean is in here we don't have any any circle.
OK, we have not created in a circle.
So the circle is created dynamically inside inside the JavaScript.
All right.
So what we are going to do is we are going to create a variable and I'm going to call it shape option,
not shape shifter.
Of course, we are going to say we are going to grab these shapes selector and we are going to use the
value for that shape selector.
Let's go ahead and let's consider log it so we can see what this actually is.
Shape our option.
All right.
So now if I come here and that's going to inspect, let's go to console.
So now if I go ahead and if I select circle, the circle should have a value of two.
Right.
So now let's come here and let's click on the OK, we are going to get a value of two.
If I click on the square and click, we are going to see a value of one.
And this is exactly what we want through this value.
We are going to decide whether that shape is a square, a circle, a rhombus or triangle, a rectangle,
whatever.
Right.
So you can add as many shapes as you want as long as you add them dynamically.
So in here, what we are going to do is because we are controlling the flow of this logic, we are going
to use an if statement.
We are going to say F shape option is equal to one.
Now, when the when it is equal to one, it means that we are going to end up with a square.
So now let's add the dimensions for that square in here.
We do already have a square there, but we need to make sure that that that square is not rotated in
any way.
Right.
So we are going to say block element, not size.
Block element style.
Dot border, radius, border, the radius, all right, is equal to zero.
That's it.
And finally, we are going to say alse if.
Allies of the option, the shape option is equal to two now, one, when it is equal to two, it means
we have a circle.
All right, so this is the circle.
So how how can we create a circle from a square?
Basically, we just have to add a radius of 50 percent.
So I'm going to copy that were a radius and I'm going to put it here and I'm going to change it to 50
percent.
Save it.
It's come here.
So now if I put it to circle and click, this is going to be a circle.
If I go to square and click, we are going to we are going to end up with the square.
Now, you might ask, OK, this is an ounce statement, whereas the else because the ending statement
of any if statement should be announced.
OK, but the reason that I have not used ounce here because is because you might want to add more shapes
to it and else basically says in any other scenario, we do not want to say in any other scenario,
the any other scenario could be like a diamond shape or rectangle shape, a triangle shape or a hexagon,
whatever.
Right.
So we don't want to say, for example, when the shape is a diamond, for example, when you have three
more three more options here, each of them is going to have a different value.
But when you add an else statement here, it is going to apply the same dynamic styles for all three
of them.
So you need to be specific with what you want.
We want when the shape option is one to have a square and one the shape option is still to have a circle.
You might and you might add another one, like, for example, when you when this shape option is three,
then you want a diamond shape.
Right.
So so you can add that inside an ounce of cloth or statement as well.
This is going to be it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.